.TH DEMAKE\-GEN 1 "" "" "Convert an image into console data/code (bin/asm/c)"
.SH NAME
demake-gen \- Convert an image into console data/code (bin/asm/c)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdemake gen\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIinput\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert an image into console data/code (bin/asm/c).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-console\fR \fI<id>\fR
Target console id or alias (e.g. gbc, dmg). [required]
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR \fIvalue\fR
Output format: raw blobs, assembler source, C arrays, or ROM. (default: asm)
.TP
\fB\-\-symbol\fR \fI<name>\fR
Identifier/label prefix for asm/c (default: from the input name).
.TP
\fB\-\-manifest\fR \fI<file>\fR
Pin palette order from a prep \-\-emit\-manifest sidecar.
.TP
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Require already\-compliant input; do not implicitly prep.
.TP
\fB\-\-tile-base\fR \fIN\fR
Add N to every emitted map tile index (VRAM tile offset). (default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-\-map-base\fR \fIN\fR
Map origin offset (recorded in the header; used by the ROM harness). (default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fI<file>\fR
Write the artifact to <file> (default: stdout when piped).
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Emit a single JSON object on stdout (product goes to \-o).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase diagnostic detail (repeatable).
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress warnings.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Overwrite an existing output file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
demake gen portrait.png \-c gbc \-\-format asm \-o portrait.asm
.br
RGBDS source
.PP
demake gen photo.jpg \-c gbc \-\-format c \-o gfx
.br
implicit prep, then C arrays
.PP
demake gen tiles.png \-c dmg \-\-format bin \-o tiles
.br
raw blobs for incbin
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdemake\fR(1)
