.TH DEMAKE\-PREP 1 "" "" "Convert any image into a hardware\-compliant image for a console"
.SH NAME
demake-prep \- Convert any image into a hardware\-compliant image for a console
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdemake prep\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIinput\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert any image into a hardware\-compliant image for a console.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-console\fR \fI<id>\fR
Target console id or alias (e.g. gbc, dmg). [required]
.TP
\fB\-\-strategy\fR \fIauto|<name>|list\fR
Tournament control: auto (default), a candidate name, or list. (default: auto)
.TP
\fB\-\-size\fR \fIWxH\fR
Target size (omit for auto: keep dims or largest aspect\-fit).
.TP
\fB\-\-fit\fR \fIvalue\fR
How to fit an explicit \-\-size. (default: contain)
.TP
\fB\-\-scale\fR \fIvalue\fR
Downscale kernel. (default: auto)
.TP
\fB\-\-dither\fR \fI<alg>[:strength]\fR
none/bayer2/4/8/floyd\-steinberg/atkinson/riemersma/ramp[:0\-100].
.TP
\fB\-\-profile\fR \fIvalue\fR
Force the source\-analysis profile. (default: auto)
.TP
\fB\-\-effort\fR \fIvalue\fR
Optimizer budget (restarts / refinement). (default: default)
.TP
\fB\-\-protect\fR \fI<colors>\fR
Comma\-separated colors guaranteed to survive quantization.
.TP
\fB\-\-no-protect\fR
Disable automatic highlight/outline protection.
.TP
\fB\-\-metric\fR \fIvalue\fR
Perceptual metric (wrgb is planned). (default: oklab)
.TP
\fB\-\-seed\fR \fIN\fR
PRNG seed for reproducible restarts (default fixed).
.TP
\fB\-\-background\fR \fI<color>\fR
Matte color for compositing transparency. (default: #000000)
.TP
\fB\-\-raw-colors\fR
Store naive\-expansion colors instead of DAC\-decoded.
.TP
\fB\-\-strict\fR
Fail rather than degrade (no tile merging).
.TP
\fB\-\-preview\fR \fI<file>[@N]\fR
Also write an N× nearest\-neighbor preview PNG.
.TP
\fB\-\-emit-manifest\fR \fI[path]\fR
Write a sidecar JSON of palettes/assignments/provenance.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fI<file>\fR
Write the artifact to <file> (default: stdout when piped).
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Emit a single JSON object on stdout (product goes to \-o).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase diagnostic detail (repeatable).
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress warnings.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Overwrite an existing output file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
demake prep photo.jpg \-\-console gbc \-o portrait.png
.br
auto\-sized GBC image
.PP
demake prep art.png \-c dmg \-\-dither floyd\-steinberg \-o out.png
.PP
demake prep photo.png \-c gbc \-\-strategy list
.br
see the candidates
.PP
curl \-s $URL | demake prep \- \-c gbc > out.png
.br
stdin → stdout filter
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdemake\fR(1)
